# How does the original steering wheel control work with the factory Philips headunit?
The buttons are mounted on two separate PCB's inside the steering wheel. From here, from both sides of the steering wheel, a flat cable runs to the steering wheel slip ring. At the other side of the steering wheel, a cable is connected to the slip ring, and runs towards the headunit. On the headunit side, there is a 7 pin connector in ISO connector style, of which 4 pins are occupied. 2 pins as input pins (1 pin per steering wheel PCB), 1 ground pin, and 1 12v pin for the LED's inside the button modules.

On the steering wheel PCB's, there are resistors mounted. Every button has its own resistance. The headunit reads these values in some way (probably through a microcontroller) and therefore the headunit knows which button is pressed. The exact workings are unknown to me, but the different resistance or voltages are probably read through a voltage divider with an ADC. Our adapter will have a similar approach, through Arduino's own analogRead() function.

The LED's are designed with a current limiting resistor, to work on the working voltage of the car, with a max. of 14.4 volts. This voltage is simply a switched battery plus, directly connected to the ISO connector which provides power from the battery to the headunit, activating when the ignition is in the switched on position. As a different headunit will not have a switched battery in the same manner as the original Philips headunit, an alternative manner needs to be incorporated on our PCB, preferably with a max voltage of 12V, and not 14.4V. I have had multiple LEDs in the car break which had similar resistors and approaches on their PCB's.

Different to most other car approaches, this steering wheel has 2 separate boards and 2 separate pins for the buttons and resistors. 
